---
date: 'April 27, 2023'
tags: ['OMSCS', 'Algorithms', 'AI']
---
# AI - Search

## Problem-Solving: Search

Peter Norvig - AIMA

## TEXT

CH. 2 Intelligent Agents

CH.3 Solving Problems by Searching

AI is doing what we don't know how to do.

**Search** is the key area where we can define steps to figure out what to do.

## Problem Definition

### Procedures

- initial state
- $Action(s) -> {a1, a2, a3...}$
- $Result(s, a) -> s'$
- $Goal_test(s) -> T/F$
- $Path_cost(s1->s2->s3) -> n or StepCost(s, a, s') -> n$

### Structures in the algorithm

- Frontier
- unexplored region
- explored region

## Tree Search

Remove choice from frontier

- BFS/Shortest First Search

## Graph search

Add s to explored to avoid revisit the same node

## Uniform Cost Search(Cheapest First)

- Greedy algorithm.

- non-zero action cost.

- Always expand the lowest cost of the frontier.
- Move the goal out of frontier, guaranteed to find the cheapest path cost.

## Search comparison

| Algorithm | Optimal | Completeness | Frontier numbers |
| --------- | ------- | ------------ | ---------------- |
| BFS       | Y       | Y            | 2^n              |
| UCS       | Y       | Y            | > 2^n            |
| DFS       | N       | N            | n                |

They all need to keep the explored set space with 2^n.

Completeness: If the tree is infinite, can the algorithm find the goal?

## A\* Search algorithm

- The best part of **greedy best first search.**
- Add more knowledge to UCS with the consistent heuristic for the goal.

$$
f = g(path) +h(path)
$$

- g(path) = path cost

- h(path) = h(s) = "estimate distance to the goal."

Minimise g is to keep the path short;

Minimise h keeps searching focus on the goal.

**A\* find the lowest cost path if h(s) < true cost or h is optimistic, admissible.**

### A\* Heuristic

We say h2 dominates h1 if for any node n,

$$
h_2(n) >= h_1(n)
$$

It means h2 will never expand more nodes than h1 for A\*.

## Final Review

### Uninformed Search Strategy

- Best-First Search
- Breadth-First Search
- Uniform Cost Search
- Depth-First Search
- Depth-Limited/Iterative Deepening.

### Informed Search Strategies

- Greedy Best-First Search
- A\* Seach

### Advanced Strategies

- Bi-directional Approach

### Bi-directional Heuristic

1. What's the good heuristic for a search?

1. Admissible and consistent meaning.

$$
f(n) = g(n) + h(n)
$$

$$
h(n) {'<='} h^*(n)
$$

$$
h(n) {'<='} c(n,a,n') + h(n')
$$

1. Can you compare two heuristics and determine which heuristic performs better for a given search?
