---
title: CS7641-Introduction
summary: Machine Learning
date: 'January 22, 2022'
tags: ['OMSCS', 'Machine-Learning']
---

## ML is the ROX Playlist

Prove theorem

### What's ML?

**Charles**: Broader notion of building computational artifacts that learn over time based on **experiences**.

The math, science, engineering, computing behind it.

**Michael**: **Computational applied statistics:**  Data, analyze the data, glean something from data via computational structures.

## Induction and deduction

* Induction applies example to more general rules. (ML depends on it.)
* Deduction applies general rules into specific examples.

Approximate function induction.

## Three major topics

### Supervised Learning (approximation)

Taking labelled data set, glean information from it so that you can glean new data set.

**Functional approximation**: assume fundamental function to explain the real world.

Taken a data set with labels + functions to generalize the functions beyond the data you've seen.

**Induction**: specifics to generic (inductive bias)

**Deduction**: rules to specifics.

### Unsupervised Learning(concise description)

Input data set, derive the structure from them.

Pixels -> Description(UL) -> Summaries -> Function approximation(SL) -> labels.

1. Equally good to use features as summaries.

### Reinforcement  Learning

Generic AI to build agents.

RL is Learning from the delayed rewards. Playing game without knowing the rules.

## Summary

### Optimization

SL: **labels** data well

UL: **cluster** scores well

RL: **behavior** scores well

Algorithm central versus Data central (co-equal?)
