---
title: Introduction
summary: Introduction to CS6310 Software Architecture and Design, Overview of Software Architecture and Design.
date: '2021-09-15'
tags: ['OMSCS']
---

## Term Definition

- Design: Deliberative, purposive planning
- Engineering: Skillful or artful contrivance applying scientific and mathematical principles
- Craft: skilled occupation
- Art: user of skill, taste, and imagination in the production of aesthetic objects.

## Software Design

The process of building a program while satisfying a problem's functional requirements
and not violating its non-functional constraints.

### Two stages

> - Architectual Design: the process of identifying and assigning the responsibility for aspects of behavior
> to various modules or components of a software.
> - Detailed design: the process of specifying the behavior of each of the system components that
> you've identified during architectural design.

## Design Notations for algorithms

- Pseudo code
- structured programming
- Flow chart
- Decision tables

## Approaches' aspects

- Design method: a particular way of viewing the problem.
  - OOD
  - Structure design
  - Role based design
- design representation
- how that design is going to be validated.

## Design issues

- top down, bottom up, inside up?
- Procedures, functions or nouns, objects.
- conceptual integrity vs cooperative development.
- trades-off between Long term maintainability and short term schedule
- What tools to use?

## How to validate the design?

- Independence of validators
- Dependence on design methods
- On-going versus after-the-fact

## Design Concepts

- Conceptual integrity
  - Coupling: the extent two components depends on each other for successful execution.
  - Cohension: The extent that the module or component has a single purpose or function.
- Information hiding: eencapsulating the capabilities that a particular module has behind an abstract interface.
- Abstraction and Refinement
  - Arrays, structs, record, objects
  - class hierarchy and generation

## Aesthetics

- Beauty, elegance, resolve to wholeness, harmony and radiance.
- It takes a lot of time and energy to come up with an elegant solution that
looks quite simple on the surface, but really satisfies the complex requirements.

## Design philosophy

Piete En related software design to four important philosophers.

1. Descartes - analytic geometry.
2. Marx - social processes and classes
3. Martin Heidegger - tools
4. Wittgenstein - the concept of language games, inventing a vocabulary for a particular problem.
